We got working tabs at least on iOS, on Android we need icons,
The good thing is we already added icons,
the bad thing is using them on our tabs is not as straightforward as you might think.
Remember we got this react native vector icons package from which we can import this icon component
which we use here on place detail,
this one. The thing is when we start our tabs where we have to assign icons, how can we use this component
here?
If we have a look at the documentation of react native navigation,
we see the rest is icon property and it's optional for iOS but not for Android
and here, we actually import a file with require and then this syntax which is simply an alternative
to the import statement we used earlier in this course to import a local image.
We can use an image here but we got our icons set which I'd like to use
So how can we import our icon?
The good thing is react native vector icons gives us a helper function for which we had to do this
linking we already did in the last course module,
so we don't have to do it right now, everything is already set up.
So in start the main tab file here,
I can just import icon from react-native-vector-icons/ionicons, just as before but now
I don't use this component in a declarative way so I don't write
icon something, instead we can use a helper method this
icon has or does icon component or element has. We can add an icon property for each tab and then we
can reach out to icon and call get image source,
this actually fetches us an image of the icon which is exactly what we need to use here
for this icon property. There we can then specify the name of the icon, the size and the color,
so the exact same properties we used in the declarative approach here,
size, name and color. The only issue is running this command doesn't instantly give us back the image,
it's an asynchronous task so we can't assign it like this,
it actually gives us back a promise and icon doesn't except the promise. The workaround is to simply
execute the promise first and then in the then block, execute start tab based app, so we can say icon get
image source
and now let's pick a fitting icon, we want to find a fitting icon for finding a place so maybe we search
for map here,
we use that map icon, how about that?
Use that one, md-map maybe,
so let's pick this one and let's load it here,
md-map. Let's pick size 30 and the color
doesn't really matter here because the tab bar will use a custom color anyways or we'll set the color
differently anyways so we don't really need to pass this here.
Now that's the map icon but we need an icon for the second tab too and probably not the same one,
it's about sharing a place so let's search for share,
let's see what we find here,
so typical share icons, so why don't we use that and maybe use this icon, that one, the first one, whichever
icon you like.
And if you're wondering how we can use different icons for Android and iOS,
follow along, we'll cover this later in the course too.
So now I also got get image source again for this second icon,
now the issue is I got these two icons here but they both return a promise and I can't run start
tab based app before they're both done,
the solution is to use the promise object which thankfully is available in react native apps.
It has an all method we can use and all takes an array of promises
and the cool thing is all waits for all promises here to resolve, just need to separate them with a comma.
So it will wait for all of them to resolve
and once they are resolved, this then block thereafter is executed
and there, we actually get an array of the data
these promises returned,
so of the image sources in our case, you can name this whatever you want.
So inside this then block, I then want to execute my navigations start tab based function
and now here, we can assign an icon, we simply access sources
and here it's the first element which will be the image of that first promise and for sharing, it will
be the second one,
so with the index one, sources index one and this is how we can add icons.
Now let's save all files and let's reload
the apps, double r on Android,
hit login again
and now it's working, we got find place and share place, in this nice animation the ripple effect
is all looking beautiful.
And on iOS, also if we reload it,
we login, here we see the icons too with the iOS style.
Still the android icons because we only loaded these
but again that is something we can fix later,
it's already looking quite beautiful though.
So this is how we add icons to our tabs.